ENH add agent skill to use benchopt (#959)
benchopt/benchopt: benchopt/skills/benchopt-create-benchmark/SKILL.md

---
name: benchopt-create-benchmark
description: >
  How to author a new benchopt benchmark (datasets, solvers, objective): the
  component contract, benchmark-wide config and dependencies, data preparation,
  testing, and CI. Use when creating or restructuring a benchmark repo, not
  when working on the benchopt library itself.
---

# Creating a benchopt benchmark

Guidance for authoring a *benchmark* (a repo of datasets/solvers/objective),
not for working on the benchopt library. This skill covers **benchmark-wide**
concerns; for an individual component see **`benchopt-add-solver`** and
**`benchopt-add-dataset`**, and for running/results **`benchopt-run-benchmark`**.

After each change, lint (`flake8 .` or `ruff check .`) and run a `benchopt run`

> smoke test.

Author: ```suggestion
smoke test with a debug config, or a `benchopt test . --skip-install` to catch early
design failures.
```

  small default/test configs in the repo and `.gitignore` only *generated* data.
- **Requirements are per component**, not per `benchmark_utils` submodule — each
  objective/dataset/solver declares exactly what it imports (install detection
  is covered in the add-solver/add-dataset skills). Organise `benchmark_utils`
  by **topic** (one module per concern), import the specific submodule from each
  class, and keep `benchmark_utils/__init__.py` **empty** so importing one topic
  doesn't load the others.
- To wrap an external code, prefer an **installable package with an in-process
  Python API** declared as a pip requirement (`pip::name @ git+https://…`) over
  `subprocess`/CLI/file round-trips.

## Data preparation and testing

- Put expensive one-time data generation in `Dataset.prepare()` and load it in
  `get_data()` (details in `benchopt-add-dataset`). Benchmark-wide, precompute
  reusable, solver-independent references in `prepare()` (e.g. a ground-truth
  trajectory) so each evaluation only does the cheap solver-dependent work.
- Give datasets/solvers a `test_parameters` dict pointing at a tiny, fast

>   configuration, and ship at least one zero-dependency `Simulated` dataset so

Author: ```suggestion
  configuration, and when possible, ship a zero-dependency `Simulated` dataset so
```

  the benchmark always has a no-install smoke test.

## Continuous integration

The template ships GitHub Actions under `.github/workflows/` — reuse them rather
than hand-writing CI. `main.yml` runs on push/PR to `main`, on tags, and monthly,
and calls two reusable workflows from `benchopt/template_benchmark`:

- **Lint** (`lint_benchmarks.yml`): runs `flake8 .` by default, or `ruff check .`
  (selectable via a workflow input).
- **Test** (`test_benchmarks.yml`): runs `benchopt test . --env-name bench_test_env -vl`,
  then again with `--skip-install`, on an Ubuntu/macOS
  matrix using a Miniforge/mamba conda env (Python 3.12 by default). It tests
  against both benchopt `@main` and the latest release, and checks the
  `min_benchopt_version` declared in `objective.py`. Heavy data dirs can be

>   cached to avoid re-downloads.

Author: ```suggestion
  cached to avoid re-downloads, by providing the cache_dir input in the test.yml workflow.
```
